Replace recipe_era5.yml with recipe_daily_era5.yml (#2182)
ESMValGroup/ESMValTool: doc/sphinx/source/recipes/recipe_cmorizers.rst

.. _recipe_cmorizers:

> Cmorizers recipes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CMORizer recipes
```
Please write "CMOR" as all uppercase characters everywhere, because it is a an acronym

=================

Overview
--------

These are cmorizer recipes calling cmorizer diagnostic scripts.

> ESMValCore supports ERA5 hourly and montly datasets in their native

Reviewer: Add a link to https://confluence.ecmwf.int/display/CKB/ERA5%3A+data+documentation here somewhere?

Author: Added.

format, see :ref:`Cmorization as a fix <esmvaltool:cmorization_as_fix>`.
It may be useful in some cases to create ERA5 daily cmorized data. This can be
achieved by using a cmorizer *recipe*,
see `recipe_daily_era5.yml <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/blob/main/esmvaltool/recipes/cmorizers/recipe_daily_era5.yml>`_.
This recipe reads native, hourly ERA5 data, performs a daily aggregation
preprocessor, and then calls a diagnostic that operates on the data. In this

> example, the diagnostic renames the data to the standard OBS6 format. The output

Reviewer: ```suggestion
example, the diagnostic renames the files to the standard OBS6 file names. The output
```

are thus daily, cmorized ERA5 data, that can be used through the OBS6 project.
As such, this example recipe creates a local pool of cmorized data. The advantage, in this
case, is that the daily aggregation is performed only once, which can save a lot
of time and compute if it is used often.

The example cmorizer recipe can be run like any other ESMValTool recipe:

.. code-block:: bash

    esmvaltool run cmorizers/recipe_daily_era5.yml

Note that the ``recipe_daily_era5.yml`` adds the next day of the new year to
the input data. This is because one of the fixes needed for the ERA5 data is to

> shift (some of) the data half an hour back in time, resulting in a missing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
shift the time axis of non-instantaneous variables half an hour back in time, resulting in a missing
```

record on the last day of the year. ERA5 data can be downloaded using `era5cli <https://era5cli.readthedocs.io>`_.

Available recipes and diagnostics
---------------------------------

Recipes are stored in esmvaltool/recipes/

    * cmorizers/recipe_daily_era5.yml

Diagnostics are stored in esmvaltool/diag_scripts/

    * cmorizers/era5.py: generates output filename

User settings in recipe
-----------------------

#. cmorizers/recipe_daily_era5.yml

   *Required add_one_day preprocessor settings:*

   * start_year: 1990
   * start_month: 1
   * start_day: 1
   * end_year: 1991
   * end_month: 1
   * end_day: 1

These settings should not be changed
   * daily_mean:
         operator: mean
   * daily_min:
         operator: min
   * daily_max:
         operator: max

Variables
---------

#. cmorizers/recipe_daily_era5.yml

   * clt
   * evspsbl
   * evspsblpot
   * mrro
   * pr
   * prsn
   * ps
   * psl
   * rlds
   * rls
   * rsds
   * rsdt
   * rss
   * tas
   * tasmax
   * tasmin
   * tdps
   * ts
   * tsn
   * uas

>    * vas

Reviewer: The "References" section is missing here, see e.g. [here](https://esmvaltool--2182.org.readthedocs.build/en/2182/recipes/recipe_emergent_constraints.html#references) for an example

Author: it is added.
